README.md, before:

# awesome-embodied-ai-ros

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributions-Welcome-278ea5" alt="Contrib"/>

A curated list of repositories and papers on Embodied AI in ROS ecosystem.

## Repositories

### Frameworks

- [rai](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai) - a generic AI Agent framework for ROS 2.
- [ROSA](https://github.com/nasa-jpl/rosa) - to inspect, diagnose, understand, and operate robots.

### User tools

- [ros2ai](https://github.com/fujitatomoya/ros2ai) - command line interface extension, especially for those learning ROS.

### Model integrations

- [llama_ros](https://github.com/mgonzs13/llama_ros) - integrated llama.cpp
- [whisper_ros](https://github.com/mgonzs13/whisper_ros) - listen to speech and generate responses.

### Projects

- [rai-agriculture-demo](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai-agriculture-demo) + [rai docs link](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai/blob/development/docs/demos/agriculture.md) - in a beautiful scene of a virtual orchard, RAI goes beyond obstacle detection to analyze best course of action for a given unexpected situation.
- [rai-manipulation-demo](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai-manipulation-demo) + [rai docs link](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai/blob/development/docs/demos/manipulation.md) - complete flexible manipulation tasks thanks to RAI and Grounded SAM 2 
- [rai-rosbot-xl-demo](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai-rosbot-xl-demo) + [rai docs link](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai/blob/development/docs/demos/rosbot_xl.md) - demonstrate RAI's interaction with an autonomous mobile robot platform for navigation and control
- [tabletop-handybot](https://github.com/ycheng517/tabletop-handybot) - AI-powered robot arm assistant.

### Related `awesome-*` lists

- [awesome-foundation-model-ros](https://github.com/ycheng517/awesome-foundation-model-ros) - a collection of ROS projects and resources utilizing or simplifying the application of foundation models in robotics.

## Papers

Commit message:

add stretch_ai, ros2hri and turtlebot3_drlnav projects (#3)

README.md, after:

# awesome-embodied-ai-ros

[![Awesome](https://awesome.re/badge.svg)](https://awesome.re)
<img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Contributions-Welcome-278ea5" alt="Contrib"/>

A curated list of repositories and papers on Embodied AI in ROS ecosystem.

## Repositories

### Frameworks

- [rai](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai) - a generic AI Agent framework for ROS 2.
- [ROSA](https://github.com/nasa-jpl/rosa) - to inspect, diagnose, understand, and operate robots.
- [ros4hri](https://github.com/ros4hri) - umbrella for all the ROS packages, conventions and tools that help developing interactive robots with ROS.
- [stretch_ai](https://github.com/hello-robot/stretch_ai) - designed to help researchers and developers build intelligent behaviors for the Stretch 3 mobile manipulator.
- [turtlebot3_drlnav](https://github.com/tomasvr/turtlebot3_drlnav) - A ROS2 framework for DRL autonomous navigation on mobile robots with LiDAR.

### User tools

- [ros2ai](https://github.com/fujitatomoya/ros2ai) - command line interface extension, especially for those learning ROS.

### Model integrations

- [llama_ros](https://github.com/mgonzs13/llama_ros) - integrated llama.cpp
- [whisper_ros](https://github.com/mgonzs13/whisper_ros) - listen to speech and generate responses.

### Projects

- [rai-agriculture-demo](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai-agriculture-demo) + [rai docs link](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai/blob/development/docs/demos/agriculture.md) - in a beautiful scene of a virtual orchard, RAI goes beyond obstacle detection to analyze best course of action for a given unexpected situation.
- [rai-manipulation-demo](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai-manipulation-demo) + [rai docs link](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai/blob/development/docs/demos/manipulation.md) - complete flexible manipulation tasks thanks to RAI and Grounded SAM 2 
- [rai-rosbot-xl-demo](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai-rosbot-xl-demo) + [rai docs link](https://github.com/RobotecAI/rai/blob/development/docs/demos/rosbot_xl.md) - demonstrate RAI's interaction with an autonomous mobile robot platform for navigation and control
- [tabletop-handybot](https://github.com/ycheng517/tabletop-handybot) - AI-powered robot arm assistant.

### Related `awesome-*` lists

- [awesome-foundation-model-ros](https://github.com/ycheng517/awesome-foundation-model-ros) - a collection of ROS projects and resources utilizing or simplifying the application of foundation models in robotics.

## Papers
